------------------------ Submission 177, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: Obvious: a Meta-Toolkit to Encapsulate Information Visualization Toolkits. One Toolkit to Bind Them All

Reviewer:           primary

Overall Rating

   3  (Borderline: Overall I would not argue for accepting this paper.)

Best Paper Award

   No

Topic Classification

   Others

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

   See below.

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

The Review

   This paper presents Obvious, which encapsulates popular infovis toolkits
   written in Java. The main toolkits encapsulated are Prefuse, the InfoVis
   Toolkit, Improvise, and Jung. Three of these toolkits are fully
   encapsulated, while Improvise is encapsulated on the data model level
   (because Improvise does not expose its visualization pipeline to public
   use. In addition, JDBC, the Java interface for SQL databases, is
   encapsulated on the data level. This opens up the Obvious environment to
   the use of databases as data sources.

   The paper purports to present a toolkit for facilitating visual analytics
   applications. But Obvious is an information visualization toolkit that
   would only support visual analytics applications to the extent that it
   might support all applications, InfoVis or otherwise. It has no special
   focus on visual analytics.

   The paper is reasonably well-written (the authors should check for typos)
   and seems reasonably complete. One supposes that a meta-toolkit that
   saves work and perhaps streamlines the implementation of visualization
   prototypes would be a good thing. But one wonders how much it would be
   used or if it could be used effectively for novel extensions based on
   research rather than merely embedding capabilities from existing toolkits
   in its generalized format. Somehow the paper doesn’t elicit much
   enthusiasm as a visual analytics paper. Partly this is due to its lack of
   focus on visual analytics. It would have helped to have a more worked out
   example of a real visual analytics application using the Obvious
   encapsulation. The community-driven process to reach consensus on the
   meta-format development is mentioned more than once, but there isn’t much
   detail. The community is apparently the group of 10 or so people who
   attended the VisMaster workshop. Some of these people are toolkit
   developers. How does this community represent the broader interests of
   researchers and application developers in the visual analytics community?

Summary Rating

   4  (Probably accept: This paper will be acceptable with minor changes.)

The Summary Review

   The reviews are 4, 4, 4, 3. General agreement is that the paper is
   reasonably
     well written and complete. The consensus is that the paper’s strong
   point is
     its support of interoperability among existing toolkits. There is a
   range of
     opinions of how relevant the paper is for VAST. Although the ability to
   deal
     with huge amounts of data within its common environment is listed more
   than
     once as a main attribute of the paper, there is concern about how this
   would
     be done and how long it would take to make a scalable application.
   There is a
     concern among the reviewers as to how well the toolkit will be adopted
   by
     researchers and what the applications will be like. The need for more
     evaluation is mentioned. More than one reviewer points out that the
   paper may
     be more appropriate in another venue.

     Given the range of ratings, a summary rating of 4 is appropriate for
   the paper.
     However, I don’t sense a lot of enthusiasm for the paper.

------------------------ Submission 177, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: Obvious: a Meta-Toolkit to Encapsulate Information Visualization Toolkits. One Toolkit to Bind Them All

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Best Paper Award

   Maybe

Topic Classification

   Others

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

   The target of Obvious is to develop a meta-toolkit which binds several
   information visualization toolkits and further can be used as fundamental
   component for visual analytics. It is a potential visual analytics system
   with plenty of support of visualization work.

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   It's a greate work to unify those visualization toolkits via standard
   models in-between. However, this paper is more proper to be submitted to
   a visualization conference rather than visual analytics coference in this
   stage.
   For sure, a powerful visualization toolkit is one of the most important
   bases in a visual analytics system, but Obvisous needs lots of work to
   integrate data analytics techniques and specific user interaction
   techniques to be a visual analytics system as some visualization toolkits
   are not designed for analytis in the beginning of development. Even so,
   the good architecture of Obvious will make further integrations easier.
   There are some questions:
   i) How to deal with the out-of-core data in Obvious?  How long will be
   spent when data is wrapped to Obvious data model for a large scale
   dataset?The data scale should be considered in visual analytics
   applications.
   ii) Is any user interaction supported in Obvious in this stage?
   iii) The author metioned multi-language support in future work. It's a
   tradeoff between powerful full-function system and efficient specific
   sysytem.

------------------------ Submission 177, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: Obvious: a Meta-Toolkit to Encapsulate Information Visualization Toolkits. One Toolkit to Bind Them All

Reviewer:           secondary

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Best Paper Award

   No

Topic Classification

   Algorithms and Technologies

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

   The paper describes a possible architecture to be used as an umbrella to
   cover and deal with different information visualisation toolkits
   developed in java. Since a big challenge is to let the different
   libraries and toolkit collaborate with one another, this is the major
   contribution of the paper to visual analytics.


Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   The authors present a tool, Obvious, whose goal is to ease the
   development of visual analytics applications. It is designed as a
   software infrastructure which can improve the interoperability among
   different and already existing toolkits and libraries at now developed in
   java (Prefuse, IVTK, Improvise and Jung), and allows to exploit the
   different features of the tools within a single framework.
   The creation of a common software infrastructure, rather than single
   tools, for dealing with huge amount of data as Visual analytics does is
   therefore the major contribution of the paper and matches perfectly the
   objectives of the conference.
   Though the paper is well written and organized, some points still have to
   be addressed:
   - a part from the integration of Weka, is it planned to integrate for
   instance free available statistical tools like R, whose functionalities
   in the field are well known, but lacks of a valid visualisation
   counterpart?
   - concerning the evaluation, even if it is clear that a really formal
   evaluation would be really complex, a more extensive one would be
   required, e.g. from expert users. Moreover, it would be interesting to
   know if the adoption of obvious for already on going projects is still
   planned.
   - somehow related to the previous point, it would be of interest to
   clarify when a (almost) stable version of the code will be available,
   since at the moment of the review no download was available
   - since the creator of Improvise is also listed in the acknowledgement,
   and for a complete binding of such tool in Obvious some changes in it are
   required, are these changes already planned ?

------------------------ Submission 177, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: Obvious: a Meta-Toolkit to Encapsulate Information Visualization Toolkits. One Toolkit to Bind Them All

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Best Paper Award

   No

Topic Classification

   Others

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

   The paper presents a system for integrating information visualization
   toolkits implemented in Java language. The target users are visualization
   toolkit designers and visual analytics application designers. however,
   since this paper is an incremental addition to existing information
   visualization toolkits, I feel InfoVis might be a more suitable venue for
   the paper.

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   Obvious presents a meta-toolkit framework for integrating different
   visualization toolkits seamlessly. the paper addresses an important It
   helps application designers to focus on the design and not on the data
   sources or visualization types. Although this paper targets VA designers
   as potential users, the work is incremental to existing infovis toolkits,
   so I think InfoVis might be a better fit for this paper. The paper is
   well-written and easy to understand on the whole.  Here are some of my
   observations:

   With the proliferation of toolkits and an apparent overlap among them,
   the paper definitely addresses a a key area of VA research. One concern
   is that the work reported in the paper is obviously at an early stage of
   development. Moreover, restricting the scope of the meta-toolkit to
   incorporate only those toolkits implemented in Java language, might not
   be viable in the long run from a commercial use perspective and restrict
   the meta-toolkit's adoption just within the academic community.

   A well-known fact in the visualization community is the dearth of
   well-maintained and reliable toolkits.  How many toolkits are there that
   are fully adopted in the community? A meta-toolkit would only be as good
   as a toolkit with respect to the specific functionalities the latter
   provides. Keeping this in mind, how much willing would VA designers be,
   to use a meta-toolkit, when some of the toolkits themselves are not
   dependable in the long run?


   I am skeptical with the meta-toolkit name, it is more of a meta-data
   approach to bind the different toolkit data formats. The key problem in
   having toolkits talk to each other is the data, so that’s a natural place
   to start. But, as explained by the authors themselves, the view and
   visualization models are incomplete and need more consensus to be
   developed. The most significant contribution in this paper therefore
   comes from the meta-data model the authors describe to integrate the
   disparate data sources. For a meta-toolkit designed for visualization,
   the view and visualization parts are specially important. So the suthors
   might restrict the scope of the paper to being a meta-data approach than
   a meta-toolkit one.

   In spite of these concerns, I did not find major issues with the paper
   and would recommend an acceptance.
